+++
author = "Manish Oza"
title = "Legal fictions"
date = "2019-03-09"
description = "A test post"
tags = [
   "commentary"
]
+++
# Fiction, meaning and interpretation

I said earlier that legal fictions allow us to modify the reach of the law in particular cases or kinds of case without reinterpreting legal terms. This is one valuable feature of legal fictions brought out by my account. In this section, I’ll elaborate on this point by contrasting legal fictions with an alternative.

The basic problem addressed by legal fictions is this. There is a legal rule that attaches consequences to falling under a certain word, like ‘clergyman’ or ‘dependant.’ In some kinds of case, there are reasons why the consequences should apply even though the word’s requirements are not satisfied, or the consequences should not apply even though the word’s requirements are satisfied. Legal fictions allow us to arrive at the right result without revising the legal rule. Of course, wherever there is a reason to use a legal fiction, there is also a reason to revise the legal rule. So, the technique of legal fictions is particularly useful where there are constraints on our ability to revise the legal rule.

However, it might seem that there is another, simpler way to get to the right results without revising the legal rule. To see this, consider what Ronald Dworkin might say about the death benefits case. For Dworkin, legal interpretation is assessed on the axes of fit and justification: the best interpretation of the law will be the one that best fits with the legal materials and justifies them, or shows them in their best light (Dworkin, 1986, p. 230). Legal interpretation is subject to distinct normative pressures, pressures that can pull the legal meaning of a term apart from its ordinary meaning. Given the moral value of providing for children, it might be argued that, on its best interpretation, the word ‘dependant’ has to include subsequently born children. If this is right, then there is no need for a legal fiction: a court can engage in an interpretive exercise and determine that the child D counts as a dependant.

Someone who takes this interpretive approach doesn’t have to say that ‘dependant’ always includes subsequently born children. Rather, they can argue that the meaning of many terms varies between ordinary and legal contexts, given the distinct normative pressures that apply in legal contexts. Meanings may even vary between different legal contexts. In an ordinary context, ‘dependant’ does not include subsequently born children; in some legal contexts, it does, such that there is no need for a legal fiction to get to the right result. This may be seen as an instance of the more general phenomenon of meaning varying with context. For example, the meaning of ‘today’ varies with the day when the word is used, and the meaning of ‘loud’ might be different in a library and a concert venue.

To be clear, this alternative proposal involves a less predictable kind of meaning-variation than cases like ‘today’ and ‘loud.’ In those cases, the rule governing the use of the word stays the same between contexts, while the semantic contribution of the word varies in a constrained way (Kaplan, 1989). This is why you can learn it in one context and be able to use it in another. The way legal meaning comes apart from ordinary meaning need not be this constrained: knowing what ‘dependant’ means in ordinary contexts need not allow you to determine what it means in legal contexts. Still, I agree that there are words whose meanings vary between ordinary and legal contexts. For example, ‘consideration’ means different things in ordinary and legal contexts; knowing what it ordinarily means does not allow you to determine what it means in law. So too for ‘person.’

But while this kind of variation is a real phenomenon in legal language, I don’t think it offers a complete alternative to legal fictions (Fuller, 1930–1931a, p. 379). The two techniques — meaning-variation and fictions — suit different problems. Meaning-variation is most apt where there are reasons — general to the legal order, or at least a large part of it — why the legal meaning of a word should diverge from its ordinary meaning. The legal meanings of ‘consideration’ and ‘person’ play a role across the legal order. By contrast, fictions are most apt where there are reasons local to one kind of legal situation to (mis)apply a term. The fictional application of ‘dependant’ to subsequently born children is specific to death benefits cases. 

The difference between these two techniques matters because multiplying meanings comes with a cost. Whenever the legal meaning of a term diverges in an unpredictable way from its ordinary meaning, participants in the legal order have to learn a new meaning in order to understand and engage with that legal rule. This cost is more likely to be worth it where the legal meaning plays a role across the legal order. If the legal meaning is specific to one kind of case — for example, if participants will have to track the difference between what ‘dependant’ means in most legal cases and what it means in death benefits cases — then fictions offer a more epistemically accessible way to get to the right result (Levenbook, 2022).  Instead of learning a new meaning, participants only have to exercise their capacity for make-believe. This is a capacity that we have independent reason to attribute to subjects like us. 
Indeed, I would suggest that, even by Dworkin’s own standards, an interpretation of the law that includes legal fictions might be superior to one that assigns variant meanings to legal terms wherever necessary to get to the right results. Of course, if all we had to work with was the word ‘dependant,’ then an interpretation of ‘dependant’ that included subsequently born children would be better than one that did not. But that is not all we have to work with. We don’t interpret terms one at a time; rather, we interpret the law as a whole. So, we should be comparing two interpretations of the law as a whole: one that interprets ‘dependant’ to include subsequently born children, and another that does not, but in which courts can fictionally apply ‘dependant’ to those children in the death benefits context. The fiction-involving interpretation certainly fares better on the axis of fit. As to justification, both interpretations provide benefits to the children who need them, but the fiction-involving interpretation may also be more epistemically accessible. 

{{< css.inline >}}
<style>
.canon { background: white; width: 100%; height: auto; }
</style>
{{< /css.inline >}}
